README.md, before:

# RabbitMQ Event Exchange

## Overview

This plugin exposes the internal RabbitMQ event mechanism as messages that clients
can consume. It's useful
if you want to keep track of certain events, e.g. when queues, exchanges, bindings, users,
connections, channels are created and deleted. This plugin filters out stats
events, so you are almost certainly going to get better results using
the management plugin for stats.

## How it Works

It declares a topic exchange called 'amq.rabbitmq.event' in the default
virtual host. All events are published to this exchange with routing
keys like 'exchange.created', 'binding.deleted' etc, so you can
subscribe to only the events you're interested in.

The exchange behaves similarly to 'amq.rabbitmq.log': everything gets
published there; if you don't trust a user with the information that
gets published, don't allow them access.

The plugin requires no configuration, just activate it:

    rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_event_exchange


## Downloading

You can download a pre-built binary of this plugin from
the [RabbitMQ Community Plugins](http://www.rabbitmq.com/community-plugins.html) page.


## Building

Building is no different from [building other RabbitMQ plugins](http://www.rabbitmq.com/plugin-development.html).

TL;DR:

    git clone https://github.com.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-public-umbrella.git
    cd rabbitmq-public-umbrella
    make co
    git clone https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-event-exchange.git
    cd rabbitmq-event-exchange
    make -j

## Event format

Each event has various properties associated with it. These are
translated into AMQP 0-9-1 data encoding and inserted in the message headers. The
**message body is always blank**.

## Events

So far RabbitMQ and related plugins emit events with the following routing keys:

### RabbitMQ Broker

Queue, Exchange and Binding events:

 * `queue.deleted`
 * `queue.created`
 * `exchange.created`
 * `exchange.deleted`
 * `binding.created`
 * `binding.deleted`

Connection and Channel events:

 * `connection.created`
 * `connection.closed`
 * `channel.created`
 * `channel.closed`

Consumer events:

 * `consumer.created`
 * `consumer.deleted`

Policy and Parameter events:

 * `policy.set`
 * `policy.cleared`
 * `parameter.set`
 * `parameter.cleared`

Virtual host events:

 * `vhost.created`
 * `vhost.deleted`

User related events:

 * `user.authentication.success`
 * `user.authentication.failure`
 * `user.created`
 * `user.deleted`
 * `user.password.changed`
 * `user.password.cleared`
 * `user.tags.set`

Permission events:

 * `permission.created`
 * `permission.deleted`

### Shovel Plugin

Worker events:

 * `shovel.worker.status`
 * `shovel.worker.removed`

### Federation Plugin

Link events:

 * `federation.link.status`
 * `federation.link.removed`

## Example

There is a usage example using the Java client in `examples/java`.

## Uninstalling

If you want to remove the exchange which this plugin creates, first
disable the plugin and restart the broker. Then you can delete the exchange,
e.g. with :

    rabbitmqctl eval 'rabbit_exchange:delete(rabbit_misc:r(<<"/">>, exchange, <<"amq.rabbitmq.event">>), false).'

## License

Released under the Mozilla Public License 1.1,
the same as RabbitMQ.

Commit message:

Mention that this plugin ships with 3.6.x; underemphasize building from source

README.md, after:

# RabbitMQ Event Exchange

## Overview

This plugin exposes the internal RabbitMQ event mechanism as messages that clients
can consume. It's useful
if you want to keep track of certain events, e.g. when queues, exchanges, bindings, users,
connections, channels are created and deleted. This plugin filters out stats
events, so you are almost certainly going to get better results using
the management plugin for stats.

## How it Works

It declares a topic exchange called 'amq.rabbitmq.event' in the default
virtual host. All events are published to this exchange with routing
keys like 'exchange.created', 'binding.deleted' etc, so you can
subscribe to only the events you're interested in.

The exchange behaves similarly to 'amq.rabbitmq.log': everything gets
published there; if you don't trust a user with the information that
gets published, don't allow them access.

The plugin requires no configuration, just activate it:

    rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_event_exchange


## Downloading & Installation

### With RabbitMQ 3.6.0 or Later

Most recent RabbitMQ version ships with this plugin.

### With RabbitMQ 3.5.x

You can download a pre-built binary of this plugin from
the [RabbitMQ Community Plugins](http://www.rabbitmq.com/community-plugins.html) page.


## Event format

Each event has various properties associated with it. These are
translated into AMQP 0-9-1 data encoding and inserted in the message headers. The
**message body is always blank**.

## Events

So far RabbitMQ and related plugins emit events with the following routing keys:

### RabbitMQ Broker

Queue, Exchange and Binding events:

 * `queue.deleted`
 * `queue.created`
 * `exchange.created`
 * `exchange.deleted`
 * `binding.created`
 * `binding.deleted`

Connection and Channel events:

 * `connection.created`
 * `connection.closed`
 * `channel.created`
 * `channel.closed`

Consumer events:

 * `consumer.created`
 * `consumer.deleted`

Policy and Parameter events:

 * `policy.set`
 * `policy.cleared`
 * `parameter.set`
 * `parameter.cleared`

Virtual host events:

 * `vhost.created`
 * `vhost.deleted`

User related events:

 * `user.authentication.success`
 * `user.authentication.failure`
 * `user.created`
 * `user.deleted`
 * `user.password.changed`
 * `user.password.cleared`
 * `user.tags.set`

Permission events:

 * `permission.created`
 * `permission.deleted`

### Shovel Plugin

Worker events:

 * `shovel.worker.status`
 * `shovel.worker.removed`

### Federation Plugin

Link events:

 * `federation.link.status`
 * `federation.link.removed`

## Example

There is a usage example using the Java client in `examples/java`.

## Uninstalling

If you want to remove the exchange which this plugin creates, first
disable the plugin and restart the broker. Then you can delete the exchange,
e.g. with :

    rabbitmqctl eval 'rabbit_exchange:delete(rabbit_misc:r(<<"/">>, exchange, <<"amq.rabbitmq.event">>), false).'


## Building from Source

Building is no different from [building other RabbitMQ plugins](http://www.rabbitmq.com/plugin-development.html).

TL;DR:

    git clone https://github.com.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-public-umbrella.git
    cd rabbitmq-public-umbrella
    make co
    make up BRANCH=stable
    cd deps
    git clone https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-event-exchange.git rabbitmq_event_exchange
    cd rabbitmq_event_exchange
    make dist


## License

Released under the Mozilla Public License 1.1,
the same as RabbitMQ.
